CORE-223 - Excluding CP leadership from high latency nodes (#1658)
hazelcast/hz-docs: docs/modules/cp-subsystem/pages/best-practices.adoc

= Best Practices
:description: Follow these recommendations to get the best performance out of your CP Subsystem deployment.

{description}

* Try to reuse already created or existing xref:cp-subsystem:cp-subsystem.adoc#cp-members[CP objects] (AtomicReference, FencedLock, etc.) and try to avoid creating new ones because they will not be garbage collected.

* Because each CP data structure is bounded by a single xref:cp-subsystem:cp-subsystem.adoc#cp-groups[CP group], a client will create a separate session on each CP group that holds the session-based data structure that the client interacts with. When idle, clients send separate heartbeat messages to each CP group to keep the sessions alive. For instance, if five clients try to acquire four locks, where each lock is placed into a different CP group, then there will be 5 x 4 = 20 heartbeat operations committed in total. However, if all locks are put into the same CP group, there will be only five heartbeats in each period. Therefore, it is strongly recommended that you store all session-based CP data structures (locks and semaphores) in a single CP group to avoid that cost.

> * Create the minimum number of xref:cp-subsystem:configuration.adoc#choosing-a-group-size[CP groups] that you think are sufficient for your CP subsystem use case.

Reviewer: What is this advice based on? Most customers only use the `default` CP group, but this actually creates quite a few issues as it becomes a bottleneck. This is discussed in [this internal document](https://hazelcast.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/EN/pages/5881724929/Snapshotting+Mechanics+in+CP+Subsystem):

> Wherever possible leverage multiple CP groups for data needs, spreading CP data structures among those groups, trying to keep an even distribution of load. This allows for more parallel processing across multiple leader nodes, reduces the size of individual group snapshots, and allows for snapshots to be persisted in parallel.

Author: Dunno, it's existing text, not something I've added (see line 8 in this diff).

= Best Practices
:description: Follow these recommendations to get the best performance out of your CP Subsystem deployment.

{description}

* Try to reuse already created or existing xref:cp-subsystem:cp-subsystem.adoc#cp-data-structures[CP objects] (AtomicReference, FencedLock, etc.) and try to avoid creating new ones because they will not be garbage collected.

> * Because each CP data structure is bounded by a single xref:cp-subsystem:cp-subsystem.adoc#cp-groups[CP group], a client will create a separate session on each CP group that holds the session-based data structure that the client interacts with. When idle, clients send separate heartbeat messages to each CP group to keep the sessions alive. For instance, if five clients try to acquire four locks, where each lock is placed into a different CP group, then there will be 5 x 4 = 20 heartbeat operations committed in total. However, if all locks are put into the same CP group, there will be only five heartbeats in each period. Therefore, it is strongly recommended that you store all session-based CP data structures (locks and semaphores) in a single CP group to avoid that cost.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Because each CP data structure is bounded by a single xref:cp-subsystem:cp-subsystem.adoc#cp-groups[CP group], a client will create a separate session on each CP group that holds the session-based data structure that the client interacts with. When idle, clients send separate heartbeat messages to each CP group to keep the sessions alive. For instance, if five clients try to acquire four locks, where each lock is placed into a different CP group, then there will be 5 x 4 = 20 heartbeat operations committed in total. However, if all locks are put into the same CP group, there will be only five heartbeats in each period. Therefore, we strongly recommend that you store all session-based CP data structures (locks and semaphores) in a single CP group to avoid that cost.
```

> * Wherever possible, use multiple xref:cp-subsystem:configuration.adoc#choosing-a-group-size[CP groups], spread CP data structures among those groups and try to distribute load evenly. This allows for more parallel processing across multiple leader nodes, reduces the size of individual group snapshots, and allows for snapshots to be persisted in parallel. We recommend creating the same number of CP groups as CP members.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For maximum performance, use multiple xref:cp-subsystem:configuration.adoc#choosing-a-group-size[CP groups], spread CP data structures among those groups and try to distribute load evenly. This allows for more parallel processing across multiple leader nodes, reduces the size of individual group snapshots, and allows for snapshots to be persisted in parallel. We recommend creating the same number of CP groups as CP members to maximize throughput.
```
